compute/lab: Replace `sleep` with `wait` call (#87)
open-education-hub/operating-systems: content/chapters/compute/lab/content/processes.md

Head over to `support/sleepy/sleepy_creator.py`.
Use `subprocess.Popen()` to spawn 10 `sleep 1000` processes.

> 1. Now use `ps -e -H -o pid,ppid,cmd | (head -1; grep "python3 sleepy_creator.py")` command and look for `sleepy_creator.py`.

Reviewer: First instruct to start the script using `python sleepy_creator.py`.

Place all commands under a code block (triple backticks). use `console` text type for code blocks with shell commands.

It is a `python3` process, as this is the interpreter that runs the script, but we call it the `sleepy_creator.py` process for simplicity.

> You shouldn't be able to find it, as the parent process (`sleepy_creator.py`) dies before its children (the 10 `sleep 1000` subprocesses) finish their execution, therefore their parent becoming either `systemd`/`init` or another system process that adopts orphan processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You shouldn't be able to find it, as the parent process (`sleepy_creator.py`) dies before its child processes (the 10 `sleep 1000` subprocesses) finish their execution.
The parent process of the newly created child processes is an `init`-like process: either `systemd`/`init` or another system process that adopts orphan processes.
```

Now use `ps -e -H -o pid,ppid,cmd | (head -1; grep sleep)` and look for the `sleep` processes you have just created.

[Quiz](../quiz/parent-of-sleep-processes.md)

> 2. Change the code in `sleepy_creator.py` so that the `sleep 1000` processes are the children of `sleepy_creator.py`.

Reviewer: Do not use `2.` Use `1. ` but prepend all lines for a list item with three spaces, to make it indent correctly.

> For this task, consider checking out [`Popen.wait()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#subprocess.Popen.wait).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that the parent / creator process must **not** exit until its children have finished their execution.
In other words, the parent / creator process must **wait** for the termination of its children.
Check out [`Popen.wait()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#subprocess.Popen.wait) and add the code that makes the parent / creator process wait for its children.
```

Kill the previously created `sleep` processes using `killall sleep`.

> Verify that `sleepy_creator.py` remains the parent of the `sleep`s it creates using `ps -e -H -o pid,ppid,cmd | (head -1; grep "python3 sleepy_creator.py")`.

Reviewer: Use block quote for command.

Reviewer: Also show a sample output.

Head over to `support/sleepy/sleepy_creator.py`.
Use `subprocess.Popen()` to spawn 10 `sleep 1000` processes.

1. Start the script, and look for the parent process using these commands:

   ```console

>    student@os:~$ python3 sleepy_creator.py

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   student@os:~/.../lab/support/sleepy$ python3 sleepy_creator.py
```

>    student@os:~$ ps -e -H -o pid,ppid,cmd | (head -1; grep "python3 sleepy_creator.py")

Reviewer: Split the two commands. One command will be featured under "start the program", the other under "inspect the processes".

   ```

   It is a `python3` process, as this is the interpreter that runs the script, but we call it the `sleepy_creator.py` process for simplicity.
   You shouldn't be able to find it, as the parent process (`sleepy_creator.py`) dies before its child processes (the 10 `sleep 1000` subprocesses) finish their execution.
   The parent process of the newly created child processes is an `init`-like process: either `systemd`/`init` or another system process that adopts orphan processes.

>    Now use 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Look for the `sleep` child processes using:
```

   ```console

>    student@os:~$ ps -e -H -o pid,ppid,cmd | (head -1; grep sleep)

Reviewer: Provide sample output.

>    ``` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```

```

   and look for the `sleep` processes you have just created.

> 

Reviewer: Do an explaining of the above output: mention that the parent process is now an `init`-like process.

   [Quiz](../quiz/parent-of-sleep-processes.md)

> 1. Change the code in `sleepy_creator.py` so that the `sleep 1000` processes are the children of `sleepy_creator.py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Change the code in `sleepy_creator.py` so that the `sleep 1000` processes remain the children of `sleepy_creator.py`.
```

   This means that the parent / creator process must **not** exit until its children have finished their execution.
   In other words, the parent / creator process must **wait** for the termination of its children.
   Check out [`Popen.wait()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#subprocess.Popen.wait) and add the code that makes the parent / creator process wait for its children.

>    Kill the previously created `sleep` processes using `killall sleep`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

   Before anything, terminate the `sleep` processes created above:
   
   add console block with the `killall` command
    using `killall sleep`.
```

I actually suggest using `pkill sleep`.

>    Verify that `sleepy_creator.py` remains the parent of the `sleep`s it creates using

Reviewer: First tell them to start the program. Then show the command. Then tell them to inspect the process, then run the `ps` command.

   ```console
   student@os:~$ ps -e -H -o pid,ppid,cmd | (head -1; grep sleep)
    PID    PPID                CMD
   16107   9855         python3 sleepy_creator.py
   16108   16107           sleep 1000
   16109   16107           sleep 1000
   16110   16107           sleep 1000
   16111   16107           sleep 1000
   16112   16107           sleep 1000
   16113   16107           sleep 1000
   16114   16107           sleep 1000
   16115   16107           sleep 1000
   16116   16107           sleep 1000
   16117   16107           sleep 1000

>    ```

Reviewer: Add the explanation of what happened **after** the command above, i.e. seeing that the `sleepy_creator.py` process (PID `16017` in the above output) is the parent process o the `sleep 1000` processes.

Head over to `support/sleepy/sleepy_creator.py`.

> Use `subprocess.Popen()` to spawn 10 `sleep 1000` processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Solve `TODO 1`: use `subprocess.Popen()` to spawn 10 `sleep 1000` processes.
```

Reviewer: Move it under `1. ...`

1. Start the script:

   ```console
   student@os:~/.../lab/support/sleepy$ python3 sleepy_creator.py
   ```

>    Look for the parent process using this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Look for the parent process:
```

   ```console
   student@os:~$ ps -e -H -o pid,ppid,cmd | (head -1; grep "python3 sleepy_creator.py")
   ```

   It is a `python3` process, as this is the interpreter that runs the script, but we call it the `sleepy_creator.py` process for simplicity.

>    You shouldn't be able to find it, as the parent process (`sleepy_creator.py`) dies before its child processes (the 10 `sleep 1000` subprocesses) finish their execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   No output will be provided by the above command, as the parent process (`sleepy_creator.py`) dies before its child processes (the 10 `sleep 1000` subprocesses) finish their execution.
```

   The parent process of the newly created child processes is an `init`-like process: either `systemd`/`init` or another system process that adopts orphan processes.
   Look for the `sleep` child processes using:

   ```console
   student@os:~$ ps -e -H -o pid,ppid,cmd | (head -1; grep sleep)
    PID    PPID         CMD
   4164    1680     sleep 1000
   4165    1680     sleep 1000
   4166    1680     sleep 1000
   4167    1680     sleep 1000
   4168    1680     sleep 1000
   4169    1680     sleep 1000
   4170    1680     sleep 1000
   4171    1680     sleep 1000
   4172    1680     sleep 1000
   4173    1680     sleep 1000
   ```

>    Notice how the child processes do not have `sleepy_creator.py` as a parent, what's more, `sleepy_creator.py` doesn't even exist anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Notice that the child processes do not have `sleepy_creator.py` as a parent.
   What's more, as you saw above, `sleepy_creator.py` doesn't even exist anymore.
```

>    The subprocesses have now been adopted by an `init`-like process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The child processes have been adopted by an `init`-like process (in the output above that process has PID `1680` - `PPID` stands for _parent process ID_`).
```

>    The child processes have been adopted by an `init`-like process (in the output above that process has PID `1680` - `PPID` stands for _parent process ID_`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The child processes have been adopted by an `init`-like process (in the output above that process has PID `1680` - `PPID` stands for _parent process ID_).
```

   [Quiz](../quiz/parent-of-sleep-processes.md)

1. Change the code in `sleepy_creator.py` so that the `sleep 1000` processes remain the children of `sleepy_creator.py`.
   This means that the parent / creator process must **not** exit until its children have finished their execution.
   In other words, the parent / creator process must **wait** for the termination of its children.
   Check out [`Popen.wait()`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/subprocess.html#subprocess.Popen.wait) and add the code that makes the parent / creator process wait for its children.
   Before anything, terminate the `sleep` processes created above:

   ```console
   student@os:~$ pkill sleep
   ```

   Start the program, again, as you did before:

   ```console
   student@os:~/.../lab/support/sleepy$ python3 sleepy_creator.py
   ```

>    Verify that `sleepy_creator.py` remains the parent of the `sleep`s it creates using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   On another terminal, verify that `sleepy_creator.py` remains the parent of the `sleep` processes it creates:
```

   ```console
   student@os:~$ ps -e -H -o pid,ppid,cmd | (head -1; grep sleep)
    PID    PPID                CMD
   16107   9855         python3 sleepy_creator.py
   16108   16107           sleep 1000
   16109   16107           sleep 1000
   16110   16107           sleep 1000
   16111   16107           sleep 1000
   16112   16107           sleep 1000
   16113   16107           sleep 1000
   16114   16107           sleep 1000
   16115   16107           sleep 1000
   16116   16107           sleep 1000
   16117   16107           sleep 1000
   ```

>    Note how the parent process `sleepy_creator.py` (`PID 16107`) is still alive and its child processes (the 10 `sleep 1000`) have its ID as their `PPID`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Note that the parent process `sleepy_creator.py` (`PID 16107`) is still alive and its child processes (the 10 `sleep 1000`) have its ID as their `PPID`.
```

   No output will be provided by the above command, as the parent process (`sleepy_creator.py`) dies before its child processes (the 10 `sleep 1000` subprocesses) finish their execution.
   The parent process of the newly created child processes is an `init`-like process: either `systemd`/`init` or another system process that adopts orphan processes.
   Look for the `sleep` child processes using:

   ```console
   student@os:~$ ps -e -H -o pid,ppid,cmd | (head -1; grep sleep)
    PID    PPID         CMD
   4164    1680     sleep 1000
   4165    1680     sleep 1000
   4166    1680     sleep 1000
   4167    1680     sleep 1000
   4168    1680     sleep 1000
   4169    1680     sleep 1000
   4170    1680     sleep 1000
   4171    1680     sleep 1000
   4172    1680     sleep 1000
   4173    1680     sleep 1000
   ```

   Notice that the child processes do not have `sleepy_creator.py` as a parent.
   What's more, as you saw above, `sleepy_creator.py` doesn't even exist anymore.
   The child processes have been adopted by an `init`-like process (in the output above that process has PID `1680` - `PPID` stands for _parent process ID_).

   [Quiz](../quiz/parent-of-sleep-processes.md)

> 1. Change the code in `sleepy_creator.py` so that the `sleep 1000` processes remain the children of `sleepy_creator.py`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Solve `TODO 2`: change the code in `sleepy_creator.py` so that the `sleep 1000` processes remain the children of `sleepy_creator.py`.
```
